I personally don’t necessarily think that the transition from a black screen to a white screen was intentional coded violence. While I do find it ironic that we are now transitioning away from the white screens into screens with dark mode and other features that mimic what computers used to look like prior to GUI interfaces, I think that white screen was created mostly to just mimic reading text on paper. Paper itself doesn’t necessarily need to be white either, but trees themselves are a tan color, and so pre paper bleaching paper was still a lighter color where dark ink had to be printed on it, and as far as I’m aware there was never a time in the world where black paper was the dominant form of paper. I think that the transition from a black computer screen to a white computer screen is definitely a compelling metaphor within the realm of systemic racism and some of the inherent issues within society, but from a purely aesthetic perspective I think that the shift from a black screen to a white screen was a design choice and not an assertion of white dominance in the technology industry. Ink being black and paper being white dates back to ink being derived from oak galls and metallic iron, or squid ink, and thus to turn an entire paper black would use more ink than it would to have white paper and write in black ink. I do definitely agree that it makes a compelling argument and that obscuring technology and the history behind it, and the fact that all of it has been constructed and conceived by straight white males, definitely perpetuates institutionalized racism within society, but don’t feel that the choice alone to make screens white rather than black was a deliberate assertion of power. I think that the white screen was purely a practical / aesthetic design choice, granted that design choice was made by white men, so perhaps if the circumstances were different maybe a white screen wouldn’t have been the best choice.

It’s honestly pretty hard to think about a computer where desktops and folders aren’t the default, and the only real logical alternative I can think of is just changing the terminology slightly – rather than folders they could be tree branches, where the desktop is the trunk and branches are different folders stemming off of them and then the files themselves are leaves. Regarding the icons however, I think that those are a choice that is made that helps distinguish the different types of applications we’re working with in a more visual way, which makes it more accessible to the general public. Maybe it’s not necessarily a good thing that the inner workings of applications we use are obscured by icons and colors and other GUI interfaces, but I truthfully don’t know if I would be using a computer if it weren’t for the slightly friendlier interface than a mono-colored screen with text on it. 